X-NEWS: wkuvx1 comp.os.vms: 7738
Relay-Version: VMS News - V6.0-3 14/03/90 VAX/VMS V5.5; site wkuvx1.bitnet
Path: wkuvx1.bitnet!vlsi!ukma!wupost!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!cis.ohio-state.edu!pacific.mps.ohio-state.edu!linac!att!ucbvax!TGV.COM!adelman
Newsgroups: comp.os.vms
Subject: Re: LAV Driver question - very simple ?!
Message-ID: <920224171737.22a000ae@TGV.COM>
From: adelman@TGV.COM (Kenneth Adelman)
Date: 25 Feb 92 01:22:20 GMT
Reply-To: Adelman@TGV.COM (Kenneth Adelman)
Sender: daemon@ucbvax.BERKELEY.EDU
Organization: The Internet
Lines: 815

> I am using Ken Adelman's LAV driver and am stumped by how to interpret the
> info returned. I am enclosing a copy of my SHORT FORTRAN code to get the
> system average load info from LAV0. How do I interpret the Blocking priority
> info and the queue length info i.e. both of these would seem to be integer
> values because priorities are integers and queue lengths would also appear to
> be integers as well.

> According to the way I read Ken's comments (which I've added to the top of
> my code), the driver returns all real values, which when displayed are all
> less than 1.00.

    These are time averages over 1, 5, and 15 minutes of the following
quantities:

    1) The number of processes waiting for the CPU. Scans the scheduler
       queues for the number of processes in COM, COMO, COLPG, PFW, and
       similar states indicating "execution".

    2) The average disk queue length. Scans the disk database for the
       "queue length" of each disk. Takes the longest one (per scan) and
       averages the "longest disk queue length".

    3) The average priority of the executing process. Scans each processor
       looking for the LOWEST priority which is currently executing. Averages
       this number. This is a good indication of whether or not you'll get
       the CPU if you request it. If you are much above this number, you'll
       get 100%. If you are much below it, you'll get 0%.


    On a machine which isn't very busy, any of these quantities can easily
be less than 1.00. For example, on an idle machine the quantities are all
zero.

    Here is a current copy of LAVDRIVER.MAR for those who are interested.

								Ken


